Extending the DTMF demo-application.


The "dtmf-dispatcher.pl" demo-application that is part of the dtmf-rcq
software package is a demo-application designed to show some of the
possibilities of DTMF-driven applets on a i-com based D-STAR repeater
gateway-server.


It is designed in such a way to allow experimentation and can be easily
extended by other applications.

The "dispatcher" application is written is perl, one of the main scripting-
languages used on unix. This was chosen as it can be used by most people
who have a minimal level of programming-experience.

The program is build like this:
- The first line of code ("open (DMTFIN ...") start up the dtmf-rcq
application in the background, and reads its input.

- every line of impact is read, and split in three parts:
command, stream-id and the rest ("part3").

That "stream-id" is important as a repeater can receive multiple streams
at the same time. It is used as a "index" for the information stored
for one particular stream.

- based on whatever "command" was issues, "part3" is then further split
up and processed further.


In practive, most "application" happens when a "END"-frame is received.
People interested in adding their own applet to the dtmf-dispatcher, are
adviced to look for the comment "Add code here" in the source-code.


Two different approaches are used in the demo-application.
-> the "radio quality announcement" (DTMF "111") uses an external script.
In this case, all data needed for that internal script is collected by
the dtmf-dispatcher and then the external script is started with that
additional information as parameters.

People who prefer to program in another language then perl can use
this approach. 

-> in the other applets, the program-code is located in dtmf-dispatcher.pl
itself and the external scripts are used only to issue the commands
to dplus..


All code after "code for DTMF actions ends here" deals with the actual
reception of the DTMF-code, key-bounce and error-handling


Version 0.1.0
d.d. 25/jan/2011

73
Kristoff ON1ARF
